# In-silico-trials-for-combination-strategies-for-enhancing-vesicular-stomatisis-oncolytic-virus
In silico trial for a computational biology model of combined oncolytic vaccinia (an enhancer virus) and vesicular stomatisis virus (VSV).

This code was created using Matlab 2019b and this will be recuired to run the code. To run, download the code and run the code starting with "Commands... .m"

Virtual patients are generated using "Commands_generating_virtual_patients.m". The samples parameters from a normal distribution and confirms they are wihtin 3 standard deviations of the average control tumour growth measured by Le Boeuf et al. (2010). Running the code, will create 200 sets of parameters that satisfy this condition. The code will then plot the patient tumour growth trajectoris (blue) with the average cohort trajectory (black) and mean measurements from Le Beouf et al. (2010) (red stars). The cohort parameters used in the manuscript can be found in "Cohort parameters.xls". An example output figure for the code is in "Cohort_trajectories.jpg". The code saves the virtual patient parameters in a .mat file called "Virtual_patient_parameters.mat".

The virtual cohort is then simulated for a range of different combination OV strategies with the code in "Treatment simulation and analysis". To simulate the effect of the number of VV injections on the cohort run "Commands_VV_multiplicity.m". This code will simulate 1 to 7 VV injections given 1 day apart with a single VV injection 7 days later on all 200 patients. It will then plot the box plot summary for cohorts outcomes of these different protocols as well as the time evolution of the cohort. To simulate the effect of the VSV lag on the cohort run "Commands_VSV_lag.m". This code will simulate VSV lags from 1 day to 15 days for either 1 VV injection or 7 VV injections on all 200 patients. It will then plot the box plot summary for cohorts outcomes of these different protocols as well as the time evolution of the cohort. Output figures for the simulations are provided.
